# UnrealEngine2 Runtime Registered Version End-User License Agreement

*Document Summary: This document contains the latest version of the end-user license agreement you are required to accept if you want to download and use the UnrealEngine2 Runtime software. It will link to version-specific pages if licenses differ between versions, and those pages will contain the latest versions.*

## END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

**PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. BY USING OR INSTALLING THIS SOFTWARE, OR BY PLACING OR COPYING THIS SOFTWARE ON YOUR COMPUTER HARDWARE, COMPUTER RAM OR OTHER STORAGE MEDIUM, YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, PROMPTLY DISCONTINUE THE INSTALLATION PROCESS AND CEASE ALL USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.**

1. **Thanks.** Congratulations and thank you for licensing our software. We're sorry to cramp your style, but our lawyers tell us that if we want to keep control and ownership of the cool stuff we're developing, we have to make sure you understand and agree that you are just getting a right to use it and that that right is limited in certain ways. So here's what you need to know and agree to.
2. **License.** The Unreal Engine 2 Runtime: REGISTERED VERSION and the related documentation (the "Runtime Software") is licensed for your use, subject to terms and limitations in this license agreement.
3. **Commercial Exploitation.** Except as restricted below in Section 4 you may use this Runtime Software, or any content created with it, or use the tools provided with this Runtime Software for commercial purpose
4. **Use Restrictions.** We want you to enjoy our products for years to come, and we want to be able to continue to release awesome stuff, so you need to be aware that there are some things you cannot do with the Runtime Software. The Runtime Software contains copyrighted material, trade secrets and other proprietary material. You may not decompile, modify, reverse engineer, prepare derivative works based on the Runtime Software, or disassemble the Runtime Software. You may not rent, sell, lease, barter, or sublicense the Runtime Software. You may not make content or product developed with the Runtime Software available for individual sale to end users by any means whatsoever. You may not delete the copyright notices or any other proprietary legends on the original copy of the Runtime Software. You may not offer the Runtime Software on a pay per play basis. You may not ship or export the Runtime Software to any country that would be in violation of the U.S. Export Administration Act (or any other law governing such matters) and you will not utilize and will not authorize anyone to utilize the Runtime Software in violation of any applicable law. The Runtime Software may not be downloaded or otherwise exported into (or to a national or resident of) any country to which the U.S. has embargoed goods or to anyone or into any country who/which are prohibited by applicable law, from receiving it. YOU MAY NOT USE THE RUNTIME SOFTWARE TO DEVELOP GAMES. YES, I KNOW THIS SOUNDS NASTY BUT LET'S FACE IT, EPIC`S PRIMARY MEANS OF INCOME COMES FROM GAME SALES AND ENGINE LICENSING. WE WOULD BE SHOOTING OURSELVES IN THE FOOT IF WE ALLOWED AN ENGINE WE GAVE AWAY FOR FREE TO TRAMPLE OUR PRIMARY MEANS OF INCOME. SORRY, BUT IF YOU WANT TO DEVELOP A GAME PLEASE DEVELOP IT AS A MOD FOR ONE OF OUR EXISTING RETAIL GAME PRODUCTS OR CONTACT US REGARDING A PROPER ENGINE LICENSE. (More information on the Unreal Engine 2 licensing can be found at: http://udn.epicgames.com/pub/Engine/WebHome/.) THANKS FOR YOUR UNDERSTANDING AND SUPPORT. (FYI: Our desire to release Runtime Software for future versions of the Unreal Engine will diminish if folks blow us off and develop or release games using the Runtime Software in violation of the above terms.)
5. **Termination.** This license is effective until one of us terminate it. You may terminate this license at any time by destroying the Runtime Software and related documentation. In the unlikely event that you are naughty and fail to comply with any provision of this license, this license will terminate immediately without notice from us. Upon termination, you must destroy the Runtime Software and related documentation. Please don't wait for us to come after you; it would not be pleasant for either of us. If we do have to come after you, we're going to expect you to pay us for our troubles, including the cost of our lawyers.
6. **Disclaimer of Warranty on Software.** You are aware and agree that use of the Runtime Software and the media on which it is recorded at your sole risk. The Runtime Software, related documentation and the media are provided "AS IS". EPIC EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES. EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE RUNTIME SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY US OR ANY OF OUR AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY OR IN ANY WAY INCREASE THE SCOPE OF THIS WARRANTY. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, S0 THE ABOVE EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
7. **Limitation of Liability.** UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, NEGLIGENCE, SHALL EPIC OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, DIRECTORS, AGENTS, LICENSEES, SUBLICENSEE OR ASSIGNS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES THAT RESULT FROM THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE RUNTIME SOFTWARE OR RELATED DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF SUCH PARTIES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF THOSE DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. In no event shall our total liability to you for all damages, losses, and causes of action (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) exceed the amount paid by you for the Runtime Software.
8. **Controlling Law and Severability.** This license is governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, USA. The exclusive venue for all litigation shall be in Wake County, North Carolina. If any provision of this license is unenforceable, we will cross it out and the rest of it shall remain in effect.
9. **Complete Agreement.** This license constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the use of the Runtime Software and the related documentation. However, Epic reserves the right to modify the terms of this license from time to time and will post notice of material changes somewhere within www.epicgames.com.
10. **Copyright.** The Runtime Software and all copyrights, trademarks and all other conceivable intellectual property rights related to the Runtime Software are owned by Epic or Epic's licensors and are protected by United States copyrights laws, international treaty provisions, an army of clones, and all applicable law, such as the Lanham Act. You must treat the Runtime Software like any other copyrighted material, as required by 17 U.S.C. section 101 et seq. and other applicable law.
11. **Enjoyment Requirements.** We are aware that there are rumblings and grumblings within the software community about heavy handed, legally onerous license agreements. You have our word that this one is as fair and even handed as it gets and, as you have read this far, you know it to be true. Now, be gone from this screen and enjoy the Runtime Software!
12. **EULA Modifications.** You agree that Epic reserves the right, from time to time, to modify the terms of this license agreement and that you will abide by the updated terms as posted at <http://udn.epicgames.com/Powered/UnrealEngine2RuntimeRegisteredEULA>. You also agree to remain up-to-date and in compliance with the most current license terms.
